
AARVIN - AUTONOMOUS ARDUINO-DRIVEN RESEARCH VEHICLE IN NATURE
CREATED BY HAYLEY LEAVITT 
COPYRIGHT 2021


AARVIN is a personal project I began concepting in the summer of 2021. 

Originally, I intended for AARVIN to be a waterborn vehicle, but due to the limitations of my experience with robotics and 
the hour-long drive to the nearest lake, I decided to change directions. I spent the better part of a year becoming more familiar with the concepts behind autonomous robotics, navigation theory, and the techonolgy of Arduinos 
and Raspberry Pis before ever beginning the mechanical or software development of AARVIN. 

Finally, I had come up with an achievable goal. While the autonomous-research-boat concept was inspiring, it was difficult 
to determine what exactly I was setting out to achieve. What would be AARVIN's purpose? To collect general weather data? 
To search for trash? To locate sunken vessels? All of these concepts are achievable on a grand scale, but within the confines 
of a university student's free time and budget, the pursuit of these goals became much more difficult. So, what would be more 
attainable? 

My father, a software engineer at Lockheed Martin, half-jokingly threw out the idea of building a little car that drove around 
and took pictures, much like the Google Streetcar, and from there I was hooked. This was an achievable goal, with a reasonable
purpose that helped define all of the design, style, and development questions that I was getting stuck on. From there, I was
able to quickly sit down and determine exactly what I wanted and needed out of my hardware. 

I decided upon a tank-style vehicle, due to its robust ability to traverse unstable outdoor terrain, and its availability as 
a robotics kit on Amazon. I had specs that I required, but since I did not have access to a laser cutter or a 3D printer, my
options for chasses were limited. If I'd had more time and access to 3d printers and laser cutters, I certainly would have 
gone the route of designing AARVIN from scratch, but I was able to find a suitable kit on Amazon including a Raspberry Pi: 
https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B09V7TKJLD/ref=ox_sc_act_title_4?smid=A1N1A77RUX51FT&psc=1

In addition to the Raspberry Pi, I had an Arduino Mega and several other components like ultrasonic sensors, gps modules, etc.
So far, the hardest part of working on AARVIN was deciding what AARVIN was going to be. 

The assembly of AARVIN will commence upon arrival of the kit in early July. 


